Hey guys.
Welcome back to the course.
So in this lecture we're going to talk about efficiency saving techniques and things that can help you
identify whether or not your client is Just Not That Into You.
So I call this lecture is tell when you're getting fizzled.
So I call it fizzle just simply because something that fizzles as something that bubbles and then just
slowly dies off.
Now getting fizzled in regards to development means that your client is not interested in the project
proposal you've given them and they're slowly disconnecting and slowly kind of backing away.
Now this is going to happen all the time.
You can't win every single contract.
This is the natural reaction of someone who looks for a proposal and for whatever reason does not like
what they see now being able to tell whether or not they're doing this to you can save you a ton of
time especially when you get to a point where you're juggling lots and lots of proposals.
You really don't want to waste your time or your developers time working on proposals that are going
towards someone who's actually in the process of fizzling you.
So first to help you understand.
Let's talk a little bit about why they might be doing this to you.
There's a lot of different reasons and it typically has to do with one of several sections in your proposal.
It could be they don't have the money for this project.
It could be that they are not actually serious about completing the project as you think might have
actually gotten to a point where they are not actually confident in the idea anymore because it's gotten
so complicated and a lot of times you have potential clients who just finally get to a point where they
feel like they're in over their head.
And then lastly it could be possible that they're looking at other offers so maybe there's another vendor
who clearly just hit the mark much better than you did.
They're slowly going to back off and start going with that vendor.
Now the moral of the story here is that when people start this process it can go on for ever.
So you need to cut your losses as soon as you recognize this is being done to you.
Seriously I've been fizzled for like six months before on clients and wasted hours and hours with them.
And in retrospect it was only when I realized that they were doing the same things over and over that
I should have noticed that were pretty much big red flags showing to me they're not actually interested.
So here are four things you can look for to see relatively whether or not they're slightly out the door
or if they're still actually enthusiastic about the project.
So the first red flag is what I call pyramid conversations.
So like a pyramid it starts off at the bottom that's large and it gets to the top or it's really small.
Now how I relate to the development is these are the type of clients when you first start talking to
them they give you tons and tons of information.
But every subsequent communication you have with them their communication and their information they're
giving to you get smaller and smaller and smaller and smaller.
They start off with a page of info the next one is very enthusiastic maybe it's three quarters of a
page.
By the time they're done they're responding and singular sentences.
Now this is not the sign of a client who has simply run out of things to say.
This is a sign of a client whose lost enthusiasm in you.
This is what they're doing when they themselves realize that you are unlikely to be the person that
they go with or the firm that they go with.
And they're slowly backing off and minimizing their resource investment and time investment in you.
Now why don't they just cut off entirely.
Well because a lot of people still think they can get information out of you.
They still would like to ask questions they would still like to use estimates and a lot of them do they
want to use that to anchor it against another firm they're actually going to work for.
But their language never lies their commitment to you should be pretty obvious if they're using pyramid
conversations.
Now the second one is slower and slower response times.
Even if it's two questions or tidbits of information that are really trivial and really standard.
So at first you might see that the client responds within an hour within six hours within the same day.
But over time you start to notice then it's like three hours then it's like 10 hours then it's like
a couple days then it's like a couple weeks.
You're getting Faysal basic.
That's the same thing.
Another way of displaying it as often happens with pyramide ization the client is basically just backing
off spending more time on other people but they still feel the need that they should respond somewhat.
Now one foolproof way to kind of tell if this is happening without having to calculate your e-mail response
time is to look at the questions you're asking them.
If you're asking a really simple question When do you want to start the project what do you do you have
a logo What's the name.
Basic stuff.
And it takes them a long time to respond to that.
That means they're not serious about you.
It's not the case that they're taking time to research these questions because they're trivial.
They should be able to respond with the same amount of time that you use beforehand so clearly they're
backing away.
Number three repeatedly asking you to clarify or re answer questions you've already answered.
Now this will happen all the time.
A lot of times people ask a question you give them an estimate and then they'll start asking you questions
about the estimate you gave.
What kind of tell tale sign that they're trying to back away or slow roll this is they start asking
you the same questions.
Really this is kind of like a symptom of you know if you're talking to someone and they're also talking
to three other people they might not realize that they've asked you the same question.
That's essentially what's going on here.
They're either too distracted by other people and they're asking you the same question because they
forgot what they've asked or the question you're answering just isn't sticking with them and they're
really confident in your answer and in general they're just unconfident in you and then never for using
vague timelines and referring to things like decisions.
Now this is another one someone who's serious about you is going to want to capture your business.
So they're going to be as definite as possible with regards to their timeline.
People who are overly vague just saying oh we're going to do it in a couple months or we're going to
do in the fall Q2 things like that.
That's when they're being overly vague.
Typically if they're interested in you they'll give you a month or they'll give you an actual like hard
deadline with some different milestones.
This is going to happen this is going to happen and this is what we want to start.
Another thing that often comes along with this is when people refer to decisions lawyers say you know
what a couple of months we want to make a decision or they'll say they're going to refer it back to
other people and we're going to make a decision later to prove that this is a way of offloading kind
of the guilt of not picking you they'll just say Oh it's it's up to the decision making gods it's up
to my partners to say no.
Really they're just backing away if they really were interested they would never say oh we're going
to make a decision.
They would tell you that they're interested.
They would indicate that they're interested and never say something like that.
So watch out for that one just as much as the others.
OK so those are four ways you can kind of tell if you're getting Fazal try to use your intuition.
All you guys are pretty good at this and it's kind of a skill that you develop over time.
People do this outside of development as well.
They do it in relationships they do it in any professional setting or scenario you just kind of have
to be aware of things that are kind of projecting towards you hey I'm backing away.
You do need to be aware though that a lot of people will continue working with you because they think
they can get information out of it or I don't even know sometimes they'll just keep it going for no
reason.
So it's really important to notice that they're doing this and get out.
OK.
Any questions.
Group discussion.
Private message me.
Although I see in the next lecture.